Now, what we need is a way to tie our state and our actions together.
Meaning we need a way to update the internal state of
our store based on the specific action that occurred.
Well, what if we use a pure function to do this.
So, what if we had a function,
we'll just call this todos because we're going to be building a todos app.
And this function is going to take in two arguments.
Let's say it took in the state,
which is going to be the internal state inside of our store.
And it also took in the action which occurred.
And then now, what it needs to do is based on the specific action which occurred,
it needs to return us a new copy of our state because again,
this is a pure function and we don't want to
mutate the state objects or these state array directly.
So, what we can do is,
let's have an if statement here that listens for a specific event type.
So, we can say if action.type equals ADD_TODO.
So, now the question is,
how do we want to modify this state based on this ADD_TODO event?
Well, what we want to do is,
we just want to take the event that occurred,.
we want to take the new todo item,
which we can access from action.todo,
and concatenate that on to our state.
So, what we will do is we will say,
state.concat parsing it action.todo.
So now, if the event type is ADD_TODO,
the way in which we're going to modify the state
is just by concatenating action.todo onto it.
And again, because concat is going to return us a new array,
this is a pure function because we're not
modifying any state directly inside of this function.
And last thing, if the action type does not equal ADD_TODO,
then all we ought to do is just return a state.
So, this gives us a preview into how
we will be updating the state from our createStore function.
Because now all we need to do is,
in order to get the new state of our application,
we just invoke our todos function,
parsing the current state as well as the action which occurred,
and that will be responsible for getting us the new state.
Now, the only other update we need to make to our todos function here
is the first time that this function is invoked,
state is going to be undefined.
Meaning we won't be able to do state.concat because
obviously you can only do concat on arrays.
So, what we can do is use ES6's default parameters here to say,
if the state is undefined,
go ahead and set it to an empty array.
And then, if state is an array,
which it will be when this line runs and state is undefined,
then we can call dot concat,
adding onto it or adding into it the brand new todo item.
Now, whenever we make a function that's going to
take in the current state as well as the action,
and then return us the new state of our application,
we're going to call that function a reducer.
So this todos function will call a reducer function because what it's doing is,
it's taking the state in an action,
and then reducing that to a brand new state.
So, going back to this visual,
the function here is a reducer since it takes in the state and an action,
and returns the new state.
And to say just one more time,
a reducer must be a pure function.